# Level 3 Question 1: XOR Series

Despite the short length of the actual code, this one has a lot going on behind it. Here's the premise: you have workers labeled in order with no gaps
on some interval between 0 and 2000000000. They line up in little squares of a given length. You then go down the rows and XOR their labels
one by one. But starting with the second row, you skip the last guy -- then you skip the last two, and the last three, and so on until you
reach the last row. (You're guaranteed to have squares, so you'll end up with a triangle of XORed workers and a triangle of skipped workers.)
The naive solution is to just do this in a nested loop, but if you try that, you might end up trying to go through 2 billion workers. That
takes way too long. For a starting worker `s` and a row length `k`, we can get do this in O(k). (The worst case scenario for the constraints 
is about 45000 loop iterations, and that could conceivably be improved on.)

## Lemma 1: XOR series from 0 to n


Claim:

``
XORSERIES(n) = 
n         if n = 0 mod 4
1         if n = 1 mod 4
n+1       if n = 2 mod 4
0         if n = 3 mod 4
``

Despite being a lemma, this is the most important result. It allows us to collapse a lot of our computation down to O(1). 
So where does this come from? It rests on the fact that `XORSERIES(n) = XORSERIES(n-1) ^ n`. Let's look at the first few terms.

``
0 = 0
0 ^ 1 = 1
1 ^ 2 = 3
3 ^ 3 = 0
``

Well, that matches our expected pattern. And that last number getting back to zero suggests that the pattern could end up repeating somehow
(since `0 ^ n = n`). Using those four computations as our base cases, let's try induction:

### Inductive Step
Assume the above formula holds for `XORSERIES(n-1)`. We will show it holds for `XORSERIES(n)`.

#### Case 1: n = 0 mod 4
In this case, `n-1 = 3 mod 4`. Thus `XORSERIES(n-1) = 0`. Therefore `XORSERIES(n) = XORSERIES(n-1) ^ n = 0 ^ n = n`.

#### Case 2: n = 1 mod 4
In this case, `n-1 = 0 mod 4`. Thus `XORSERIES(n-1) = n-1`. Additionally, since `n-1 = 0 mod 4`, its last two bits are `00`. This means that
the last two bits of n are `01`. All other bits must be the same. Since matching bits XOR to 0, XORSERIES(n) = (n-1) ^ n = 1.

#### Case 3: n = 2 mod 4
In this case, `n-1 = 1 mod 4`. Thus `XORSERIES(n-1) = 1`. n must be even, since `n = 2 mod 4`. Thus the last bit of n is 0. Therefore `n ^ 1` 
has the same bits as `n`, but with the last bit equal to 1 instead, i.e. it is `n+1`. Therefore `XORSERIES(n) = n ^ 1 = n+1`.

#### Case 4: n = 3 mod 4
In this case, n-1 = 2 mod 4. Thus `XORSERIES(n-1) = n`. `XORSERIES(n) = n ^ n = 0`.

QED. This is great news -- since there are really only four options, we can calculate the result of *any XOR series* in constant time.

## Lemma 2: XOR series from m to n

Claim: `XOR_range(m,n) = XORSERIES(m-1) ^ XORSERIES(n)`

This rests on the facts that XOR is its own inverse. (That is, `a ^ a = 0`, or more to the point, `a ^ b ^ a = b`.)
The result we're looking for is `m ^ m+1 ^ ... ^ n`. Because XOR is its own inverse, we can XOR another term to the equation, as long as we 
do so twice. Let's tack on the term `0 ^ 1 ^ ... ^ m - 1`. So we have `(0 ^ 1 ^ ... ^ m-1) ^ (0 ^ 1 ^ ... ^ m-1) ^ (m ^ m+1 ^ ... ^ n)`.
Since XOR is associative, this is equal to `(0 ^ 1 ^ ... ^ m-1) ^ (0 ^ 1 ... ^ n)` (we merge the second two terms into one). 
Now notice that we have two terms that are an XOR series from 0 to a number. We have a function for that. Substituting in yields our claim:
`XORSERIES(m-1) ^ XORSERIES(n)`. QED. The advantage of this form is, of course, that we can now find an arbitrary-range XOR series in
constant time by using the technique in Lemma 1.

## Proof

Claim: `answer(s,k) = XORSUM(i=0:k-1 ; XOR_range(s+ik,s+(i+1)(k-1)))`

This is actually pretty straightforward. Because XOR is associative, we can XOR up each row and then XOR the results together. This is 
convenient to do because each row is an interval with no gaps, so we can consider each row an XOR_range. The only question is
the limits of the range. Each row `i` starts at `s+ik`: the offset from the starting number plus `k` for each previous row of 'k' workers.
The row ends at `s+ik+k-1`, or `s+k*(i+1)-1`. But we stop XORing elements `i` workers from the end, at `s+k*(i+1)-1-i`. Rearranging with 
algebra yields 's+(i+1)(k-1)`. Thus we can get the the value we need from the row with `XOR_range(s+ik, s+(i+1)(k-1))`. If we do this 
with every row (from row 0 to row k-1) and combine the results, we get `XORSUM(i=0:k-1 ; XOR_range(s+ik,s+(i+1)(k-1)))`. Taking the XORSUM
will have to be done in a loop as there is no closed-form solution that we've found here; this is an O(k) operation. By Lemma 2, 
each XOR_range is an O(1) operation. Thus the overall complexity is O(k). QED.



