# Level 3 Question 2: Bombs and Modular Arithmetic

A lot of the math for this one is in the comments, but I'll reproduce it here. The premise of this problem is that you have two types of bomb, M and F. At each stage, you can produce more Ms per F you have, or more Fs per M you have. You start with one of each. Given a target M and a target F, you need to figure out how many steps it takes to get to exactly those targets (if it is possible at all). From here forward, let's represent a state with `m` M-bombs and `f` F-bombs as `(m,f)`.

### Observation 1: This is a binary tree.

From a state `(a,b)`, you can go to two states: `(a+b,b)` or `(a,a+b)`. Thus it is binary. This is uniquely reversible; `(a,b)` has the parent `(a-b,b)` if `a>b` or the parent `(a,b-a)` if `b>a`. Thus it is a tree. The only case not covered is `a=b`, but as we will see, this never occurs other than the root.

### Observation 2: Every state has a pair of numbers with GCD 1

#### Base case

`(1,1)` has GCD 1. 

#### Inductive Step

State `(a,b)` has GCD 1. By definition, there exist integers `p`,`q` such that `ap+bq=1`. Let `p=q+r`. Then `ap+bq=a(q+r)+bq=aq+ar+bq=ar+(a+b)q=1`. Thus the GCD of `a` and `a+b` is one, i.e. state `(a,a+b)` has GCD 1. This also implies that `(a+b,b)` has GCD 1. 

QED

### Shortcut if M or F equals 1

If we're on either side of the tree, we have a state that looks like `(1,x)` or `(x,1)`. It should be pretty clear that this is reached by taking `(1,a+1)` a bunch of times -- specifically `depth-1` times. So if we end up here we can instantly return `x-1`.

### In general

The obvious algorithm here is to take `(M,F)`, return `False` if they aren't coprime, and otherwise step up the tree by repeatedly finding the parent state until you hit `(1,1)`, counting the steps as you go. The only problem is that this is `O(max(M,F))` there are test cases with numbers as high as 10^50. Get `(10^50,10^50-1)` and you'll be waiting a while. We have to be smarter.

It turns out we can kind of hop along the tree, going from `(a,b)` to the first `(a',b)` where `a'<b`. This `a'` ends up being `a mod b`. This is because repeatedly subtracting `b` from `a` until you hit zero is equivalent to division, and the last number you get before hitting zero is the remainder of that division. So how can we tell how many steps we took? Well, by definition, that's the quotient of that division. So we go to `(a mod b,b)` and add `a//b` (integer division) to our stepcount. Then we do it again, but with `b` and `a mod b` (recalling that `b` is the larger quantity this time). So we go back and forth like that until we hit `(1,1)`.

### Complexity

This might not seem like much of an improvement, but it's actually quite substantial. Every step that causes a small reduction is followed by a step that causes a large reduction -- e.g. if `a mod b = b-1`, the smallest possible reduction, then the next step is `b mod b-1 = 1`, the largest possible reduction. The worst-case performance occurs when there's starting scenario that minimizes these swings; a steady state where `b` is roughly the same fraction of `a` that `a mod b` is of `b`. In such a scenario, we're essentially reducing `M` and `F` by a constant ratio until we hit 1. How many steps will that take? By definition of logarithms, `O(log(max(M,F)))`. Much better than the `O(max(M,F))` we had before!
