# Level 2 Question 1: Make the Highest Number Divisible by 3

We're given a set of digits, 0-9. We need to return the highest number we can make with those digits that's divisible by 3 (returning 0 if it isn't possible).

Credit goes to Brian McGrath for most of this solution. I had this problem pegged as a variation of subset-sum and initially tried to use dynamic programming, but it turns out that modular arithmetic makes this version much easier to solve.

### Observation 1: Order doesn't matter.

A number is divisible by 3 iff the sum of its digits is divisible by 3. This means that for a given set of digits, the numbers you can make with that set are either all divisible by 3 or none are. 

### Observation 2: More digits means the number is bigger

This should be pretty self-evident. (It can be quickly proved by showing that `sum(i=1:n of 9*10^i)=1*10^n-1`.) The consequence of this and the previous observation is that we can get our result by finding the largest set with a sum that's divisible by 3. (We can just sort the set from largest to smallest when we find it to get the biggest number out of it).

### Observation 3: If all digits in a set are the same except one, the set with the larger digit will make the larger number

This can be proven, but it's pretty intuitive. Since sets are sorted before being turned into numbers, the two different digits either occupy the same place or a different one. If they occupy the same place (e.g. 320 and 321) then the number with the higher digit is larger by `(the difference)*(the value of that place)`. If they occupy different places, then the larger digit has to be in a higher place, because otherwise that would break the rule about sorting. If this is the case (e.g. 9764 and 9874) then the large digit is necessarily larger than the corresponding digit in the other set -- otherwise it wouldn't have swapped positions with it in its own set. Therefore the number as a whole is larger.

That was a lot of words to sort of prove something obvious.

### Observation 3: A number modulo 3 is either 0, 1, or 2

There are no other options.

### Algorithm and proof

So let's put this together. 

If we take the sum of the whole set modulo 3 and we end up with 0, then that's the largest possible subset -- we sort it, turn it into a number, and return it. The number is divisible by 3 and by Observation 1 it's the largest possible such number; therefore it's the correct answer.

If we end up with 1, then we have to try to remove numbers to get down to 0. First we can try to remove a number that's congruent to 1 modulo 3 -- we want to take away the smallest such number (since by observation 3, removing a larger digit would result in a smaller number). If we succeed, the resulting number is divisible by 3 (since 1 - 1 is congruent to 0 mod 3) and it will be the largest possible such number (since we determined that removing 0 elements doesn't work, and removing more digits would result in a smaller number).

If we can't find any, we can get the sum down to 0 modulo 3 by removing two numbers that are congruent to 2 modulo 3 (since 1 - 2 - 2 is congruent to 0 mod 3: 1 - 2 is congruent to 2, and 2 - 2 is congruent to 0). Again, we want to remove the smallest first. We will definitely find two eligible numbers -- otherwise the sum couldn't have been 1 mod 3. This is the largest possible correct number, since removing more would result in a smaller number and we already checked removing 0 and 1.

If the sum ends up being 2 modulo 3, the process is almost the same. The only difference is that we can try removing a single number congruent to 2 modulo 3 first (2 - 2 is congruent to 0 modulo 3), and if that doesn't work, we try removing two numbers equal to 1 modulo 3 (2 - 1 - 1 is congruent to 0 modulo 3). Again, we're guaranteed to find those numbers. 

If we end up with an empty set at the end, we'll return 0. Note that this is the result that occurs if our removal process removes all numbers from the set.
