# Level 2 Question 2: Shortest Knight's Path

We're a knight on a standard chess board. We're told where we start and where we need to end. We need to figure out the length of the shortest path there (we don't need to print the actual solution, just its length). Note that there is a solution for any valid input because a knight can reach any square from any other eventually.

This is pretty clearly a graph theory problem, but we don't need to think in terms of nodes and edges. We just need to be able to get all neighboring nodes for a particular node (i.e. all valid moves for a particular square). This can be done pretty easily if we think of the chessboard as a 1D array with squares from 0 to 63 (which is how it's set up in the problem). Any move is just one of 8 additions or subtractions (with bounds checking). 

Now we can make a separate list with an entry for each node to keep track of how many moves it takes to get to that node from our starting position. We'll initialize our starting position to 0 (we don't need to move at all to get from start to start) and the rest to 64 (a very generous upper bound on the number of moves it takes to get to an arbitrary square -- we know we can do this because there exists at least one [Knight's Tour](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knight%27s_tour).

Now we'll loop through the list several times. At each square, we try to update the shortest path -- the shortest path to a square is 1 + the shortest path to any node that can move to it (since moves are completely reversible, this is every square to which it has a valid move). So for every square, we set `dist[square] = 1 + min(moves(square))`. Except our starting position, of course, which is always 0. The process might end up looking something like this (example starting position of 18):

```
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
63 63 0  63 63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
```

```
63 1  63 1  63 63 63 63
1  63 63 63 1  63 63 63
63 63 0  63 63 63 63 63
1  63 63 63 1  63 63 63
63 1  63 1  63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
63 63 63 63 63 63 63 63
```

```
63 1  2  1  63 63 2  63
1  2  3  2  1  2  63 63
2  3  0  3  2  3  2  3 
1  2  3  2  1  2  3  4 
4  1  2  1  4  3  2  3 
3  2  3  2  3  2  3  4 
2  3  2  3  2  3  4  3 
3  4  3  4  3  4  3  4 
```

```
4  1  2  1  4  3  2  3 
1  2  3  2  1  2  3  4 
2  3  0  3  2  3  2  3 
1  2  3  2  1  2  3  4 
4  1  2  1  4  3  2  3 
3  2  3  2  3  2  3  4 
2  3  2  3  2  3  4  3 
3  4  3  4  3  4  3  4 
```

In four iterations we've covered every square on the board and can return an answer for any destination we're given.

A few observations: first, we're kind of mapping out all possible paths at once, in order. So at each step, we're finding every square that can be found in that number of steps; all the 1s are found in step 1, all the 2s in step 2, and so on. As we saw, we might find a few 3s and 4s in step 2, but we'll definitely find all of them in their appropriate steps. A consequence of this is that once a number is set, it never changes -- we know a 3 will never change to a 2, because if it could be reached in two steps, we would have done it already. Second, this is quite fast. We're doing better than following one step at a time -- because we modify each row of the board as we loop through it, we're essentially doing two steps at once for the next row. 

This means we can put a bound on how many iterations we need. Since a path of length n will be found in length n, we just need to find the longest possible shortest path and we never need to iterate more often than that. This turns out to be something like 5 or 6. In most cases, we'll find it even faster.

If we want to add a slight optimization -- or try to generalize this to an infinite grid -- we can stop as soon as `dist[destination]` changes from its original value. But in this case, the performance doesn't really matter, since the size of the board is constant. The complexity is `O(size of board * length of longest shortest path)` (presumably that length also depends on board size). The variant where we stop as soon as we reach our destination has complexity that grows linearly with the shortest path from the source to the destination.
